It is a very common question of you people that is
critical illness covered in health and
insurance policies or not, so
any hospital
immunity policy related to your health means whatever expenses you will incur because
of critical illness,
if you are admitted for critical illness
like cancer, heart problem, bereavement,
any such chronic condition for which recurring
claims will keep coming, claims will keep coming again and again
and it is irrecoverable, basically that is
critical illness, whatever expenses there are,
whatever hospitalization happens, you can imagine,
for cancer, there is someone's team and
therapy, there is any surgery, that is
covered, any hospitalization expense is before death, there is expense
after, there is emergency
and post hospitalization expense of Rs 2000,
so now what is it, there are some lot of
critical illness policies or you
also get a rider of critical illness in the policy,
which confuses whether the
word 'critical illness' is not there in my policy, so
here I would like to tell that  If you have a critical illness
hospitalization cover in your policy, then the
rider gives you lump sum benefits.
For example, your critical illness is covered under
this indemnity cover in the policy.
Suppose your claim is for ₹2 lakh, if it is a policy of ₹10 lakh, then ₹
2 lakh will be paid out. And that's it. If
you have taken a critical illness rider, whatever
additional premium you take,
or if you have taken a critical illness cover on the policy by paying an
additional premium, then
you will also get a lump sum benefit in that case. For the time being, if
you have
taken a critical illness cover, say, if you have taken an
additional rider of ₹10 lakh, then if a critical
illness is diagnosed, you will get an additional ₹10 lakh on
top of your hospitalization expenses. So, in this, we will understand
what is not included in the critical illness rider,
so that you can easily decide whether
you want to take the rider or not
and why it is important to
take a separate policy for critical illness. So, the video
starts.  Before doing this, I would like to
introduce myself. My name is
Goodlink Gotti. I am a Certified
Financial Planner. I have been
associated with the insurance industry for the last 18 years
and every week I bring you videos to improve
your personal financial life.
Happy Birthday to you because our
company's tagline is also 'Creating
Happiness'. So let's move towards the video.
Six Things You Know About Critical Illness
Policy and What is in Today in Your
Policy.
So first of all, we will talk about the importance of critical illness.
You know
what used to happen earlier due to critical illness. The
survival chances were very less. If someone had
cancer or heart problem, then most of the
time people did not survive.
Cancer was diagnosed only after the first heart attack or at the
latest stage,
so the survival rate of people was very low. But
now you will see that the survival rate has increased a lot.
But these are many cancer survivors.
Even after many critical illnesses,
people survive and live for a very long time.
But their  The expenses increase
because of your treatment, your
chemotherapy, your earning capacity, your
potential to work, because your body is
not as fit, you are not
able to work as well, your potential to work is not as great, so
your income also gets
hit and from that time onwards your
expenses also increase, so
if you get lump sum benefit from critical
illness add-on or standard on-board policy, then it is
very helpful, so that is why it is
important to know some things that what benefits you get in your
critical illness add-on policy or rider and what are the taxes and what are the taxes, first of all,
critical illness by
definition is not everything, there is a list of critical illnesses,
you will get a separate list in every insurance policy,
you will get 20 illnesses covered per illness, 34 on illness,
51 on illness and 92 also, so
according to that list you will see the policy
you have taken, if there is any diagnosis from the list, then
lump sum bill will be given.
If he has a diagnosis outside the list, he will
not get lump sums. So,
you should keep this in mind that only those benefits which are
in the list will be paid out to you, he will
not be paid out outside the list. So,
check it carefully. Whenever you are taking a policy,
carefully check which
critical analysis is done in your policy.
Like this is the list in front of you, you are
seeing the list. The list specifies
if it is a heart attack, then which heart attack?
If there is a critical illness, then its
variety is specified. So, for
example, if there is a cancer, first cancer, first
heart attack, then on its
diagnosis, you will be given lump sums and benefits.
Open CVG, open heart
replacement and repair of heart valves,
so these are very specific things, you will
get this only if it happens. If something else happens beyond this, then
it will not be considered as criticality. So, it is
important for you to see this list.
This is a list of a policy, so you can analyze whichever
policy you want to take carefully
and check its list.  You
can see what is covered and
what is not covered. We will
bring a comparison video in front of you
where we will compare the
critical illness policies available in the market,
what are their features, what is their coverage scope,
how many illnesses are covered, after how much time do
you get the benefit of critical illness
and what are the disadvantages along with the
premium. So, our detailed video is going to come very soon,
for this if you have not subscribed to our channel, then do it because there are some
exclusions also, when
you take a critical illness policy, then on the basis of
your existing conditions, you will get an
exclusion that
if you have any critical illness related to this condition, then you will
not be covered for so many years, so
you should also check this properly and only after that
buy a critical illness policy and
some things are excluded along with it, like
in critical illness, consider your
self-injury, if you
try to cause self-contract to yourself, then  If it
is also critical, your policy will become void
and you will not get it in case of
suicide and critical illness.
If you have a critical illness due to alcohol or substance
abuse, you will
not get it. So here you are seeing that
whatever you are diagnosed with naturally,
where you have no control,
you will get it there. Whatever is due to your mistake or
human fault, you know that it can cause
harm to me, still you are doing it
and if it is diagnosed, then the company is not liable to you.
That is an
exclusion. If any
criminal is committed due to that, then there will be no penalty. Third is the
waiting period. So we will see that your
critical policies also have waiting periods
like in your health insurance
policy. Suppose you take a policy
and tomorrow you are diagnosed, then there will be no penalty. There are certain waiting periods.
In many policies, it is specified that there is no waiting
period. In many policies, it will be mentioned
60 days, 90 days, up to 180 days.  If we do
not pay tax on critical illnesses, then the initial
waiting period will apply. The fourth point in these policies is the
survival period. This is also an
important term when we
talk about a critical illness policy. The survival
period is
how many days
you have to survive after the critical illness is diagnosed, only then you will
get the critical illness benefit. Suppose
today someone is diagnosed with a critical illness and dies within
10 days, and the survival period in this policy
is closed for 30 days, you had to
survive for 30 days only then you would get the critical
illness policy benefit. So, if
someone survives, only then will he get the benefit. This is
again not in anybody's hands, but this
clause is there in this policy, so it is
important for you to know that he will not
get it in cases where there is no survival period.
Fifth, as I told you, the
critical illness policy is a lump sum
policy, a fixed benefit policy.  So,
you have taken a critical illness policy and
you said that I have a sum assured of 20 lakhs for a
critical illness, then there you will get the
benefit of critical illness on diagnosis, in
which this 20 lakhs should be a listed illness. So
what happens in a health insurance policy is that the indemnity is that
whatever your hospital expenses are, they will pay you that much, suppose if the
expense is 2 lakhs or 3
lakhs, then only that much will be paid.
Here you will get the full 20 lakhs fixed
benefit and the policy will end there itself.
So, most of the policies end
where you have a critical illness
diagnosis, they are not allowed to renew it next year.
You should check the
policy and it can also be closed. So,
you
can take a critical illness or a standard illness policy, that is, you
can take a separate policy or you
can also add a critical illness rider to your existing policies, whether
it is health insurance or term
insurance, there is a critical illness rider in both.  The
last
point
I would like to mention about critical illness policies is that generally critical
illness policies are individual policies, there is
no family policy. Most of these
policies are individual policies,
so the
policy starts on the basis of your health and
you must have seen in the policy that if you have any small
condition or any lifestyle condition, then you get a
health policy
with waiting periods, but critical illness
policies are a little difficult, as it is a
fixed benefit, a lot of time has to be paid to the insurance
company, so there are some risks involved in the
undertaking.
In critical illness policies, suppose if
someone has BP or diabetes, then they will get a health
insurance policy easily, but it is possible that they may
not get a critical policy
because due to that there are some chronic conditions, the
chances of getting a critical illness are higher
and the liability of the insurance company is
divided in a big way, where in health and bravery, you have to pay Rs 10 lakh, 20 lakh, 50 lakh or 1 crore together.  The
claim amount is small
and the waiting period is also
maximum 180 days which
is usually available in the policies that after 188 days they have to be terminated, so the undertaking is a
little strict,
I would say that there is
no ease in critical illness policy,
so is it advisable to
buy it young, do not delay, do not wait for the critical illness, that I will buy it by when
I am 45
or 50, it may happen on time due to your medical
condition, even due to minor medical conditions
you may
not get a critical illness policy and the critical policy will work
great, so if you look at the data, then
19 you people in India
and this figure will go double from the date every year,
so here you are seeing that means the
number of people who are getting diagnosed with critical illness is
very high, so
critical illness policy is actually your limit and
power, if something like this gets
diagnosed then you should buy it today itself.
Take critical analysis policy, any
questions regarding critical policy,
please recharge and if you
want to buy critical illness policy
then you can contact us, our
team will assist you and before going, a
quick reminder if you have
not yet subscribed to our channel, do
subscribe so that you get the right
information and the right time, we will meet
next week with a new video from the stage,
take care, bye bye,
just for a minute, I can
start, right,
okay, means here left right, something is okay,
Adventure Bharat, your permanent,
you can get rich out